RAC-190: Documentation of DSM (#12828)
akeneo/pim-community-dev: akeneo-design-system/README.md

# Akeneo Design System Repository
![Preview](public/preview.png)

## What is a design system?

The aim of Akeneo Design System is to help Akeneo designers and developers deliver work faster and better.
It provides teams with a common language and encourages adherence to design guidelines with compliant components while offering consistent experience through user.

Designer can validate independently each component and have global view on available components when designing new view.
Developers are don't need to re-implement component on each bounded context/projects.

Because component implemented here are used several times they are most strongly tested unitary and visually 

## How to see components and guidelines ?

This project use storybook to display components and guidelines. 

**Preview**

> Version of master is available here: https://akeneo.github.io/akeneo-design-system/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latest version available here: https://akeneo.github.io/akeneo-design-system/
```

**Locally**

This project required 

```bash
$ yarn install
$ yarn storybook:start
```

Then open http://localhost:6006 on your browser. You don't have to relaunch the command at each change.

> ## How to contribute ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to contribute?
```
No space before ? in English 😉

Author: :hushed:

This project have been automatically extracted from the following mono-repository: https://github.com/akeneo/pim-community-dev.
If you want to contribute please create a pull request in this repository.

### What should be in Akeneo Design System ?

This repository contains : 
- Simple or complex (composition) components used several time in multiple projects/bounded contexts
- Illustrations used several time in multiple projects/bounded contexts
- Icons used by components in this repository
- Basic hooks

> - Themes relative to projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Themes relative to Akeneo product (PIM, Onboarder, Shared Catalogs)
```

### What should not be in Akeneo Design System ?

- Specific view => each project should keep in charge of create 
- Code relative to infrastructure (translation, routing, validation ...)
- Logic specific to the domain

### How to write a component ?

**@TODO Maybe move this into the DSM guideline**

> - Component should be strongly typed with Typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Component should be strongly typed with TypeScript
```

- Component should be self documented, all props should describe itself through comment.
- Component should be accessible

> - Component should not have hard coded color, it should use color in theme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Component should not have hardcoded color, it should use color in theme
```

> # Akeneo Design System Repository

Reviewer: Also could be nice to have access to this README.md directly in Storybook?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's a really good idea. Maybe markdown could be converted as MDX

![Preview](public/preview.png)

## What is a design system?

The aim of Akeneo Design System is to help Akeneo designers and developers deliver work faster and better.

> It provides teams with a common language and encourages adherence to design guidelines with compliant components while offering consistent experience through user.

Reviewer 3: ?
```suggestion
It provides teams with a common language and encourages adherence to design guidelines with compliant components while offering consistent experience to users.
```

> Designer can validate independently each component and have global view on available components when designing new view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Designers can validate independently each component and have global view on available components when designing new views.
```

> Developers are don't need to re-implement component on each bounded context/projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Developers don't need to re-implement component on each bounded context/projects.
```

> Because component implemented here are used several times they are most strongly tested unitary and visually 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because components implemented here are used several times they have to be tested unitary and visually.
```

## How to see components and guidelines?

> This project use storybook to display components and guidelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project uses Storybook to display components and guidelines. 
```

**Preview**

> Latest version of master is available here: https://akeneo.github.io/akeneo-design-system/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latest version is available here: https://akeneo.github.io/akeneo-design-system/
```

**Locally**

> To build this project, should have the following installed package :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build this project, you need to have the following package installed:
```

If you want to contribute please create a pull request in this repository.

### What should be in Akeneo Design System?

This repository contains : 
- Simple and complex (composition) components used several times in multiple projects/bounded contexts
- Illustrations used several times in multiple projects/bounded contexts
- Icons used by components in this repository
- Basic hooks
- Specific themes of Akeneo products (PIM, Onboarder, Shared Catalogs)

### What should not be in Akeneo Design System?

- Specific view => each project should keep in charge of create her own view logic
- Code relative to infrastructure (translation, routing, validation ...)
- Logic specific to the domain

### How to write a component?

**@TODO Maybe move this into the DSM guideline**
- Component should be strongly typed with TypeScript
- Component should be self documented, all props should describe itself through comment.
- Component should be accessible
- Component should not have hardcoded color, it should use color in theme
- Component should use CSS-in-JS
- Simple components should be stateless

> - Coding style should follow rules defined in .eslintrc

Author: Component should manage forwardRef and ...props

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Coding style should follow rules defined in .eslintrc
- Components should be keyboard accessible
- Component should provide aria attributes if necessary
- Components should follow the [compound components pattern](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hEGg-3pIHlE).
```

### How to write a story?

**@TODO Maybe move this into the DSM guideline**

- All stories should be in MDX format (https://mdxjs.com/)
- All properties should editable by the user
- Story should describe when component should be used
- Story should display all possible variations

> - Story should follow this template :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Story should follow this template:
```

```
# Name of the component
Introduction

## Usage
- General guidance
- Functionality

## Playground
- Visual
- Show properties description
- Possibility to interactivelly edit property values

## Variations
- Show all possible variations that allow user to have a better overview of the component capabilities
```

## Testing instructions

There is two type of tests, unit and visual tests.

### Unit tests

Unit tests can be launched with the following commands :
```batch
# Launch only one time
$ yarn test:unit:run 

# Launch in watch mode
$ yarn test:unit:watch
```

Unit test should validate all component behaviors => coverage of 100% is required for component in this project.

> Unit tests are in the same directory of the component.

Reviewer 2: @SamirBoulil IMHO, we should put this in a "what to do to add a component" section

### Visual tests

Visual test can be launched with the following command :
```batch
$ yarn test:visual:run
```

All components in storybook is automatically tested visually through snapshot comparison.

> Normally, stories should describe all possible states, adding manually visual test must be an exception.

Reviewer 2: maybe here, we should explain that it's only the CI that launches the viesual tests

# Akeneo Design System Repository
![Preview](public/preview.png)

## What is a design system?

The aim of Akeneo Design System is to help Akeneo designers and developers deliver work faster and better.
It provides teams with a common language and encourages adherence to design guidelines with compliant components while offering consistent experience to users.

Designers can validate each component independently and have a global view on available components when designing a new view.
Developers don't need to re-implement components on each bounded contexts/projects.

Because components implemented here are used several times they have to be tested unitary and visually.

## How to see components and guidelines?
This project uses Storybook (https://storybook.js.org/) to display components and guidelines.

**Preview**

Latest version is available here: https://akeneo.github.io/akeneo-design-system/

**Locally**

To build this project, you need to have the following package installed:

> - Yarn (https://classic.yarnpkg.com/fr/docs/install)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Yarn (https://classic.yarnpkg.com/docs/install)
```

# Akeneo Design System Repository

> ![Preview](public/preview.png)

Author: TODO after merge of PR, use github path to image because storybook cannot display this image
